We need to get the engines
back up to near light speed
or we won'’t reach Prox B.
Plus, there'’s a murderer
onboard, and we still have
no idea what hit us.
Do you even know who she is?
She didn'’t train
with the rest of us.
So happy to meet you, gentlemen.
Susan, do you know
anything about this?
All I know is she was
assigned here last-minute
by someone high up.
What are you doing here?
I was just checking
the entrance logs
to see who came in here last,
but they'’ve been wiped.
I wonder who
could'’ve done that.
Eva Markovic, Lieutenant Lane,
Lieutenant Brice, and me.
I want you to only think
of the good times with Harris.
Think you can do that?
I'’m officially naming you
head of shipwide mental health.
You don'’t think
this is the murder weapon.
There'’s some kind of crystal
thing wedged in there.
They look like diamonds.
Lane, the glove'’s
fingers are nearly off!
When you said you'’d shut down
the coolant system,
did you mean
the engine coolant system?
I bought us one, maybe
two days of drinking water.
So you chose more days of life.
-
- Attention all hands.
This is Lieutenant Garnet.
As you may be aware,
for the last hour,
our engines
have been offline.
Due to...
technical difficulties
in reclamation,
we'’ve lost a large percentage
of our water supply.
To that end, we'’ve shut
down our engines
and redirected
its coolant water
to life support.
I won'’t lie to you,
we'’re in a tight spot.
We have only four days
of water left.
In an effort
to stretch supplies,
effective immediately,
we'’re cutting water rations
in half.
I hate to ask you
to make yet another sacrifice,
but we have no other choice.
I will keep you updated
of all further developments.
I have no doubt in
the ingenuity and resilience
of this amazing crew
to see us through the current
crisis. Garnet out.
Bad move.
You think people
were rioting and going
crazy before.
You just triggered a tsunami.
- We should'’ve kept
that to ourselves.
- Everybody has a right to know.
I'’m pretty sure that's not how
the chain of command works.
We'’re a colony ship,
not military.
We became a military vessel
when we came out of cryo early,
lost half of our crew,
and were forced to make
the hard decisions
most of these people
aren'’t trained for.
You can'’t treat
scientists and technicians
like they'’re soldiers.
We'’re in a war
for survival.
Everyone onboard
has been drafted.
So, if I'’m Chief
of Life Support,
that makes me
an officer, right?
Our job is to protect
everyone on this crew,
both physically
and psychologically.
We can'’t just make announcements
that are gonna panic everyone.
I have faith
in people'’s resolve.
That faith is gonna bite us
in the ass if you don'’t--
So the plan is for
you two just to argue
until we die of thirst?
Fine, where are we
with the engines?
The NEPS cannot run
without water as coolant.
The Nuclear Electric
Propulsion system'’s
a genius design
by William Trust.
He just never accounted for,
you know, any of this.
Can we deploy
the solar sails?
Wouldn'’t work.
We need to be closer to a star.
So we divert power
back to the NEPS.
- No.
- No?
I'’m pretty sure
you meant, "Let'’s talk
through our options."
- It'’s a waste of resources.
- We need to go
search for water.
Where? Brice, were you able
to find any planetary systems
our hobbled engines
could get us to in time?
Not charting any, no.
Mm.
- Oh, shit.
- What?
Do you remember
30 seconds ago when water
was our biggest problem?
- What now?
- The long-range sensors
just alerted.
Our drift has taken us
right into a collision course
- with an asteroid.
- Get those engines going now.
That'’s what
I'’ve been saying.
Start-up takes 12 hours.
10 if I cut corners.
I need to refill
the chambers--
Look, you'’re wasting time explaining.
We'’re gonna need
those engines fast.
How fast?
Impact'’s in six hours.
Great. We just went from having
four days to live...
to six hours.
Shit.
I'’ve run it half a dozen times,
and at its current speed,
the impact will be like
hurling a boulder at an ant.
Got a minute,
Lieutenant Lane?
We still haven'’t
finished our conversation.
Seriously?
The murder investigation.
Yeah, look,
don'’t touch me.
How did you know
the murder weapon was found
in the water system?
Everybody knows.
Plant boy can'’t keep
his mouth shut.
And where were you
at 1600 shift time
the day of the murder?
Really, you'’re doing this now?
We'’re in crisis mode.
We'’re limping through
space on a broken ship.
We'’ll always be
in crisis mode.
The fact is,
there'’s been a murder.
That asteroid is about
to murder everyone,
so help or get out.
Felix, Lane is right.
This is all hands on deck.
I know you
want to do something,
but this isn'’t it.
- What was that?
- What?
I don'’t need you
to fight my battles.
Oh, my God.
Oh.
Nathan, add extra
surge protection.
Novak, check
the radiation seals.
How can I help?
Anything you need.
I know the NEPS
aren'’t my specialty,
but I'’m a quick study.
If it helps, I found a way
to get two extra gallons
of water from life support.
I know it'’s not much,
you could pump it into the--
Alicia, I appreciate
that you want to help,
but unless you know
how to jumpstart the NEPS,
I need you
to get out of the way.
- The insulation is in.
- Seals are solid.
There'’s one thing
you can do. Pray.
Um, I haven'’t really
sorted out my feelings
on spirituality.
I know that science
doesn'’t preclude
the existence of God,
and the idea itself
can be emotionally comforting.
But at the same time,
there is little evidence
to, um...
They stole all my stimulants,
painkillers, and dissociatives.
Someone probably
wants to numb themselves
to their impending death.
They'’re gonna do more than that.
Those meds are strong.
If whoever stole them
takes too much,
they'’ll O.D.
and die long before
anything else kills them.
The jumpstart didn'’t work.
What'’s our next move
to get the NEPS up?
There isn'’t one.
We'’re putting out fires
down here, literally!
How bad? It'’s another problem
that'’s about to kill us?
No, I'’ll have it
under control before we die.
The engines were
our best shot of getting
clear of the asteroid.
- Our only shot.
- Come on, guys, think.
Neither of you have
another idea? Anything?
Well, you wanted
to be in charge.
James? James.
- Lieutenant Brice.
- Oh, hey, doc.
Listen, I'’m just
on my way to a briefing.
So unless this is urgent--
Yeah, I pinged you
three times.
Yeah, no, no, no.
I saw, I saw.
But the hand'’s doing fine.
You know, it stings a bit.
But from what I hear,
we'’re a little short on
painkillers anyway, so--
We are, but that'’s
not what this--
Honestly,
don'’t worry about me.
I can handle it.
Yeah, I need
to see you in med bay.
I just told you
I can handle the pain.
This isn'’t about your injury.
I need to run a physical on you.
Why?
Your medical file
got corrupted somehow.
I'’d like to give you
an exam and make sure
your chart is up to date.
Come on, doc.
Look at me. I'’m fit as an ox.
I need specific numbers,
lipid panels, pulse ox,
stuff like that.
So I still need
to take measurements,
draw some blood,
fill out your chart.
Why don'’t
we just do it right now?
I'’m not sure if you've heard,
but we might all be dying
in the next couple of hours.
Right. Then if we live,
I need you to report
to med bay first thing.
One crisis at a time,
hey, doc?
Hey.
Looking all over for you.
I was kinda wondering
if you have
the inside scoop
from the bridge?
Lower decks are convinced
that we'’re gonna die.
That'’s the asteroid,
and, yeah, it'’s gonna kill us.
Hey, look, I know
I don'’t know you that well,
but it doesn'’t seem like you
to be so-- so defeated.
After everything
we'’ve been through,
the thing that'’s going
to end us is a giant rock
randomly hurtling
through space.
Now I'’ll never see Prox B.
I'’ll never have kids.
Never fall in love.
Not that I might even
want to have kids on
a strange planet anyway.
- Not that anyone would ever
fall in love with me--
- Hey, hey, hey.
What? Hi.
For what it'’s worth,
if we'’d have lived,
I could have seen myself
falling in love with you.
- You'’re making fun of me.
- No, wait. Are you kidding?
- You'’re amazing.
- Please don'’t.
No, no, I'’m serious.
You'’re so cool and so smart.
I mean, you saved our lives.
When we were running
out of oxygen, you went
from waste management
to Chief of Life Support
in less than a day.
You'’re the genius girl
who sees a problem
and solves it,
so what I don'’t understand
is why are you giving up now?
Why aren'’t you solving
this problem, too?
I really don'’t know.
Maybe it'’s an unsolvable
problem, but...
I should still try to solve it.
- Okay, how can I help?
- What do you know
about astrophysics?
Absolutely nothing.
Uh, you wanted to see me,
Lieutenant Garnet?
Yeah, join us.
We could use all the help
we can get right now.
Sure.
My-- my pleasure.
Everything in space
is in motion,
so even with the engines dead,
we'’re still drifting.
Wow, what are the odds
that our drift would put us
in the course of an asteroid?
Well, it'’s better than
you'’d think, actually.
It'’s 1 in 700,326.
It came up on the computer.
Calculations
have the point of impact
as our foresection.
Poetic justice.
If we don'’t figure this out,
bridge crew is first to die.
A whole tenth of a second
before the rest of the ship.
If I could'’ve
just gotten the NEPS up
for a few seconds,
one second--
What do you mean?
All we needed
was one moment of thrust
to change our drift path
and move us out
of the asteroid'’s way.
Too bad we can'’t
get out and push.
What did you just say?
Get out and-- you know,
like a car?
It was a stupid joke. Sorry.
Brice, you think
you can do it?
Come on, I'’d be insulted
if you asked anyone else.
- Eva?
- No problem.
I'’ll run the numbers for
the best point of contact.
- Objections?
- Only that I wish
we'’d have thought
of this two hours ago.
- Then let'’s do it.
- I feel like the conversation
went left and I went right.
You'’re a genius, Angus.
Thank you. What did I say?
Seriously,
I don'’t know what I said.
I'’ve wanted to take
this baby out since Earth.
Wish the circumstances
were a bit better, but...
Oh!
Lieutenant Brice
is gonna use the shuttle
to literally get out and push us
onto a different course.
- I am a genius.
- You need a copilot?
Oh, come on.
It'’s a milk run.
Right, let'’s get
this thing done.
Firing up the pre-burn now.
What did you do?
Tried to start the preburn.
What the hell?
The console says
I'’m missing parts?
- Oh, no.
- Okay, what did you do?
Oh, well,
there was so much happening
and I didn'’t think
we'’d need to use the shuttle
for a long time,
and, oh, it was
just one little hose.
- You stole a hose?
- A fuel hose, for irrigation.
And you didn'’t think
to tell any of us until now?
You guys, it'’s also saying
that we'’re missing a--
- Power coupler.
- Yeah.
Stein salvaged one
for the NEPS.
He told me
I didn'’t want to know
where he found it.
Look, these parts aren'’t
plug-and-play.
It'’s gonna take a while
to calibrate.
- Can you do it in time?
- I honestly don'’t know.
Draft whoever
you need to help.
Have some of the techs
grab the parts and help Brice,
then get back here ASAP.
You, too, Angus.
- What are we going to do here?
- Figure out plan C.
A burst of thrust here
would get us out
of the asteroid'’s path.
It'’s a simple maneuver.
Brice can do it.
If he can fix
the shuttle in time.
Until then, we have to come up
with an alternative plan.
That'’s the men's showers
on the other side
of the hull, right?
- Yeah.
- What if we sealed off the room
and blew a hole
in the outer hull?
The escaping air pressure
could give us thrust.
Or it could break us in half.
The detonation could
destroy hull integrity.
You asked for
alternative plans.
We don'’t even carry explosives.
Actually, between human waste
and human remains,
I'’ve collected
a lot of fertilizer.
Fertilizer can be turned
into an explosive.
It could work.
Over-pressurize the room,
keep the detonation small.
And the expulsion
of pressurized oxygen would
give us a moment of thrust.
It'’s dangerous, but we don't
have a lot of choices.
You'’re right.
We'’re out of time
and options.
Let'’s blow another hole
in our ship.
Which one do you need?
What did you do?
Bring every hose
in the bioshelter?
- Yeah.
- All right.
Uh, no, no, no, no.
Where are you? That'’s it.
All right, you are on.
You little beauty!
All right, power you up.
Oh, for God'’s sake.
All right, you.
You'’re done. Let's go.
Move, move.
Give me that.
Thank you very much.
You'’re on a break.
Thank you. Have a good day.
Do you have any idea
how hard that was to find?
Actually, yeah.
You might have killed us.
Great.
Still no power.
Are you sure
you'’re doing it right?
Are you asking me
if I know how to push a button?
Right, just move.
Move, move, move, move.
I'’ll do it myself.
All right, this is it.
Here we go.
Here we go, right?
Lucky charm. Let'’s go now!
Oh, that is just shite.
That is shite.
I mean, we'’ve fixed
everything twice.
There'’s nothing left to fix.
That has to be it now.
That actually has to be it now.
No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no.
You this time. You.
Lucky charm, lucky charm.
We'’re done. We're done!
Oh. Oh, very funny.
Very funny! Well done.
Good joke.
Everybody'’s laughing.
A directed explosion
is tricky.
I need to measure, factor in
blast trajectory, and--
Oh, looks like we just found
Kabir'’s missing drugs.
This ends right the hell now!
Who the hell are you
to give us orders?
Honestly, I'’ve been asking
the same thing for days.
I didn'’t sign up
for any of this,
but you keep
ordering me around.
We'’re not astronauts
or officers or whatever.
- We are just passengers.
- Let me be clear.
You are crew on this ship
until we reach our destination,
and you will do as you'’re told.
Right now, your orders
are to clean up your mess
and get the hell out
of here, double-time.
Every damn one of you,
you'’ve got three seconds
to move your asses
before I send you out
of the goddamn airlock!
Three, two...
- Comments?
- Oh, I approve of everything
that just happened.
- Are you sure about this?
- Of course not.
We'’re about to blow
a hole in our ship
with an IED.
It'’s ready!
- Oh, that reeks.
- Of course it does.
It'’s made of human waste
and remains.
- Well, get it out of here.
- It'’s our bomb.
- Uh, looks a little small.
- It'’s a matter of ratio.
Compost to ammonia gasses
from our fallen comrades and--
Yeah, I don'’t need
to know the science,
I just need to know
if it'’ll go boom.
Oh, it'’ll-- it'll go boom.
I just-- I don'’t know if
it will be too big a boom.
At this point, I don'’t care.
I'’d rather die than
keep smelling this. Here.
- Okay.
- The seal is good.
Okay, I just want to stress
I ran all the measurements
three times,
but I'’ve never
done this before.
Yeah, no one'’s ever
done any of this before,
but you'’re smart.
- It'’ll work.
- You gonna make
an announcement?
It'’s like you said,
better to not
freak everyone out.
- Here.
- It was your idea.
You do it.
You ready?
How much fertilizer
did you use?
Well, in my defense,
the fact that we'’re still
breathing'’s a good sign.
Running a ship-wide
diagnostic.
Hull integrity solid.
But did we move enough?
Because that was our last shot
and the asteroid'’s almost here.
- 586.
- 585.7268.
- I was afraid to round.
- You'’re just saying
numbers out of context.
- Come on--
- We ran the calculations
separately to be sure.
It'’s not exactly
my field of expertise,
but I do love math.
- Just tell us,
are we out of harm'’s way?
- Yes, it worked. Barely.
- The asteroid will miss us
by 586 meters.
- Yes!
- Closer than I'’d like, but--
- It doesn'’t matter.
It was a good idea
well-executed.
Guys! Guys, guys, guys.
Fixed the shuttle,
so I can move the ark now.
What?
I'’m missing something.
We'’re getting more
accurate sensor data
the closer
the asteroid gets, and...
Attention, all hands,
this is Lieutenant Garnet.
We are clear of the asteroid.
I repeat,
we are out of the path
of the asteroid.
Thank God!
Oh, I'’m sorry.
I'’m sorry. I just, um--
That-- that'’s okay.
Can I admit something to you?
I was ready
to shit my pants
that whole time,
but, um, focusing
on what you were doing
was probably the only thing
keeping me from passing out.
I'’m glad I could help.
Come on, let'’s go watch it pass.
- Oh, my God.
- What?
- I'’m such an idiot.
- Why?
Look. What do you see?
What, the asteroid?
The asteroid,
which has a tail.
Like a dog has a tail?
Like an expulsion of gas
and dust created by--
Never mind.
I have to go and tell everyone.
You said that we were
gonna be hit by an asteroid.
Yeah, and now we'’re not.
But it'’s not an asteroid.
Yeah, well, asteroid,
giant space rock,
rogue moon,
it'’s not gonna hit us.
It'’s none of those things
because it has a tail.
- Comets have tails.
- Yes.
Uh, okay, so it'’s a comet?
Why does that matter now?
Because comets
are made of ice.
And ice means water.
Don'’t you see?
If we can mine it,
our water problems are solved.
That'’s great.
How the hell
do we mine a moving comet?
We'’ve got the drilling equipment
to get to Prox B.
We just can'’t
get it to the comet,
not with the NEPs down.
Once the comet passes,
the opportunity is gone.
I have an idea.
We have miles of ship-to-ship
refueling hose.
We can use the hose
to tether the ark
to the comet as it passes.
Once connected, we can drill
for all the water we need.
But compared
to the speed of the comet,
it'’s almost like
we'’re standing still.
Couldn'’t tethering
rip us apart?
The hose is high tensile
to account
for ship-to-ship drift.
But you'’re right,
it wasn'’t designed for
this amount of stress.
If we got the ark moving
to match the comet'’s
relative speed...
That would take the strain
off the tether, but...
- No engines.
- Exactly.
So we'’re back to the same
problem we started with.
Not true.
We may not have the NEPS,
but, uh,
we do have an engine.
I was looking over
your shuttle repairs.
Not bad for
a few hours'’ work, eh?
I wouldn'’t know,
you didn'’t file a work log.
Yeah, well, we were on
a bit of a time crunch,
but I promise you
I will fill out all
the relevant paperwork
if we, you know, live.
- Did you recalibrate
the power coupler?
- Yes.
And the fuel hose,
did you use a sealant?
Silicon-based so it
wouldn'’t corrode? Yes.
Novak said you replaced
the engine manifold.
Oh, Eva, so help me,
if you'’re about to ask
if I installed
a new heatsink--
- Well, did you?
- Of course.
Come on, Eva, it'’s fixed.
Do you not trust me?
You'’re a navigator,
not an engineer.
Yeah, but I used
your techs to help me.
Hang on.
Are you a little bit
worried about me?
I'’m worried about all of us.
If this doesn'’t work,
we'’re all dead.
Well, then, you'’d better
let me get out there
and save all our lives.
I'’m surprised
they don'’t need you
on the bridge for this.
Don'’t they need you for,
like, life support things?
Too many cooks in the kitchen,
so I thought I'’d come and watch.
I was hoping
you'’d still be here.
Ah. This is yours.
Hey, Alicia!
Word is we have you to thank
for identifying
the comet as a comet.
I wouldn'’t have seen it
if Baylor hadn'’t encouraged me.
- Oh, then thank you, too.
- No, don'’t thank me.
I'’m pretty sure this
tethering thing will kill us.
Why? The plan'’s genius.
Won'’t attaching to the comet
be like sticking his hand out
to grab a speeding train?
Not at all.
- The asteroid is--
- Oh. Comet.
Yeah, it'’s--
it'’s moving so fast,
and we'’re dead in the water.
Lieutenant Brice
is using the shuttle
like a booster rocket
to accelerate the ark
up to the comet'’s velocity.
Okay, but how can
something so small
get us moving so fast?
We'’re in space.
There'’s no gravity,
no friction or resistance.
Size doesn'’t matter.
Just force.
- Okay, so how much force
can the shuttle generate?
- A lot.
It was designed
to ferry people between
Ark One and Proxima B,
so its engines are
strong enough to break free
of a planet'’s gravity.
Uh, okay, even
if it gets us moving
the same speed
- as the comet, won'’t it--
- When two objects are moving
at the same speed
in the same direction,
it'’s like they're standing still
relative to each other
as far as the laws of physics
are concerned.
To use your example,
it'’ll be like
sticking our hand out
from a second train
going the same speed
and the same direction, relatively.
Okay. Yeah.
Hey, you'’re really good
at explaining this stuff.
What I want to know
is why is Lieutenant Brice
flying the shuttle?
I thought he was a navigator.
- You don'’t know about Brice?
- What about him?
Come on, he'’s like
a legend in the GSA. No?
Okay, he started off
in Cent-Com, right,
when he was a plebe
just like me.
And he became a GSA pilot
faster than anyone ever has.
They say he became
the best in the force
in less than a year,
which is some
kind of record.
Oh.
So why'’d he become
a navigator then?
Well, they transferred him
for some reason.
- I'’m not sure why.
- I hope it wasn'’t because
he can'’t pilot any more.
Still wish you'’d have let
one of us go with you, Brice.
There'’s no reason to risk
more lives than we have to.
And, besides, pal,
you would just be in my way.
Comet passes in 12 seconds.
Engines are green
across the board.
Just waiting on your word.
All right.
Seven, six, five, four,
three, two...
- Go for burn.
- Let'’s go for a ride.
We'’re only half the relative
speed of the comet.
You have to increase
acceleration, Brice,
otherwise the comet will
just shoot straight past us.
Yeah, I'’m working on it.
All right, that'’s as much
as I can push it without
blowing the engines.
Copy, we'’re at 87% of
the comet'’s relative speed.
That should be enough
to stop us from ripping
apart as we tether.
Should, right?
Listen, if I die,
don'’t be putting me
in that NOR, yeah?
I don'’t want
none of you eating me.
The comet'’s about to pass.
It'’s now or never.
Well, here comes
the fun part.
Detaching in three, two...
Hurry it up, Brice.
We'’re about to lose the comet.
Brice, your stability
readouts just spiked.
Is everything all right?
Yeah! Yeah, fine!
Just got a little kiss
from the comet'’s atmosphere.
Just a bit of space turbulence,
that'’s all.
I'’m attached!
You cut that close.
The comet will outpace us
in three, two...
- Brace!
- ...one.
Tether'’s secure!
Not for long, Brice.
When you detached
from the ark,
we changed our direction
by half a degree.
Shit. I must'’ve
detached too quickly,
given you
an accidental push.
It'’s created too much stress
on the tether.
I guess I should hurry, huh?
Deploying drill.
My readouts are telling me
I'’m gonna be showering soon.
How'’s it look on your end?
Confirmed.
Water is siphoning.
Brice, we'’ve drifted
too far off course.
It'’s too much
strain on the tether.
It'’s going to tear you apart.
Brice, the tether is breaking
at its weakest link-- you.
I kinda figured as much
when I started to depressurize.
- What'’s the water situation?
- We'’re 92% capacity.
- That'’s good enough, detach.
- No, no, no, no.
Good enough
is not good enough.
- 95!
- Detach!
- Get out of there!
- Guys, my EMU oxygen
is five by five!
It won'’t matter
if the shuttle rips apart from
around you, Brice. Get out!
This is not up for debate!
We do not need 100%!
Get out of there, Brice!
Not until the job is done!
- 97!
- Come on.
She'’s gonna hold!
Don'’t you make a liar out of me.
98!
99!
- 100!
- Come on!
Water tanks are full!
- Whoo!
- Now, listen, I expect
a nice cold glass
of comet water when I dock.
Great job, guys.
Well done, everyone.
I'’m gonna get you
for this, Brice.
Yes, all right, all right.
- Well done.
- Look, look, we kind of
broke the shuttle.
I'’ll add it
to the repair schedule.
Yeah, we didn'’t need 100%.
What, do you got
some kind of death wish?
I'’ve been accused
of that, yes.
Hmm. Don'’t do it again.
- Right, where is my water?
- Here.
Right now, that looks
better than champagne.
Mmm.
Now you'’ve got me thinking
how long it'’s been since
I'’ve had a real drink.
You know, maybe we can
turn one of the storage
closets into a bar.
One problem. No booze.
Something tells me Angus
can brew something up.
Oh, um, where'’d Eva go?
Ah, she'’s a workaholic.
I deserve this.
What do you say
we inform the crew, Lane?
Are you asking my opinion?
I'’m asking you
to do the honors.
Attention, Ark One.
This is Lieutenant
Spencer Lane.
We didn'’t just avert
a crisis today,
we came together as a team.
For some reason,
the universe has decided
to make us all
its punching bag.
But if we continue
to stay united,
we will survive this,
and we will make it
to our new home.
As of this moment,
all water restrictions
have been lifted.
- Hi, ladies.
- Hey, this is
the women'’s shower.
Well, you see,
now it'’s the co-ed shower
because they, uh--
they blew up the men'’s shower.
So...
What fresh hell is this?
Oh, sweetheart.
Come with me. Come on.
Girls! Girls, would you mind
passing me a soap?
This was all we got back
from the doomsday party?
I'’ll sweep crew quarters,
see if anyone pocketed anything.
I hope find some,
otherwise we'’re about
to have a med shortage.
- We need to install
something more secure.
- Have at it.
Still haven'’t slept?
I'’ll deal with this tomorrow
so you can have some rest now.
Rest? Oh, there is no rest.
I have 52 post-hibernation
physicals to review.
Okay, I have a little
field training as a medic.
I cannot diagnose cancer,
but I can run a PICC line
or set a bone
if you ever need help.
You, sir, do not know
what you just volunteered for.
Thank you.
Oh, God.
To be clear,
I can'’t read minds.
So whenever
you want to talk...
I got trapped out in
a UV storm a few years back.
Everyone moved inland
to get away from
the rising sea levels,
but the sun still got us.
I lost my sister in a UV storm.
I'’d appreciate it
if you didn'’t tell
anyone about this.
- Our little secret, okay?
- No problem.
And that goes both ways.
Everything you tell me
is confidential.
I cried it all out.
I'’m better now.
Just...
everyone was celebrating
and I felt...
It felt wrong
to be happy, didn'’t it?
- You'’re here, Harold isn't.
- Harris.
It'’s what we call
survivor'’s guilt.
You feel like
you don'’t deserve joy,
especially not after
the way Harris died.
I was surprised
to learn about you two.
We kept it a secret.
I never understood
why that rule even existed,
that couples couldn'’t be
in the same ark.
Something to do
with genetic diversity.
- What?
- You know.
They didn'’t want people
that were related
at the new colony
so they could maximize
the number of people
that could make babies.
But Harris and I
weren'’t related.
We were just in love.
Why couldn'’t we be
on the same ship?
I don'’t know.
Maybe they wanted us
working extra hard
with the promise that
loved ones would follow.
Or maybe they felt
that relationships
would complicate things.
- That'’s stupid.
- You wanna know
something funny?
I thought you were
in a relationship
with Jasper, not Harris.
- Why would you think that?
- I saw you spit on his body.
I thought maybe you were
mad at him for dying.
Not a logical response,
but a common one
between lovers.
That asshole is to blame
for Harris'’ death.
If he hadn'’t replaced
the real Jasper,
- Harris would still be alive.
- I'’m sorry. I didn't think.
Of course you'’d hate him.
Hate is not a word big enough.
He deserved to have
his throat slit.
Even without a brig,
we can'’t let the theft
of meds go unpunished.
- I agree.
- We have to let them know
this type of behavior
will not be tolerated.
I'’m assigning the thieves
shifts in the mess hall.
Whoa. If they can
steal meds, they'’ll
probably steal food, too.
- How about latrine duty?
- Even better.
You were right, by the way.
People did freak out.
You'’d be well within
your right to say
"I told you so."
What, after the way you threw
that guy against the wall?
I honestly thought
you were gonna send him
out the airlock.
You wouldn'’t have
really spaced him, right?
In future,
I will take your advice
into consideration
before disseminating information.
- Lieutenant.
Holy shit.
I'’m at Frank's Taproom.
You know, the hangout
for all the GSA officers.
This biker guy wouldn'’t
take no for an answer
from this woman and, um...
Check it out.